e
e e
well good morning
folks good morning good
morning if you
are one of the few that follow me on
X if you could uh just give me a heads
up let me know you can hear
me give me audio check
is the audio good is the audio
loud I'm not hearing myself
so all right I'm getting confirmation
that you all can hear so that's good so
I appreciate your uh your patience I
wanted to have that risk disclaimer show
for a little bit longer than I normally
do so and I apologize
for being somewhat tardy but you know us
us furus you know we have to stick to
the union guidelines and rules and we
have to be uh you have to be late every
now and then we like to sell it as uh
fashionable to be uh to be
late just Union rules hooks so um
obviously we are going to be watching
the Carnage that is non-farm payroll
here in a about 20 minutes or so and I
want to remind
you that I never know where it's going
to go nonfarm payroll is a carnival ride
and it can be very
damaging if you go out here and try to
speculate ahead of it treat it like a
fomc you don't know where it's going
treat like CPI you don't know where it's
going like a PPI number you have no idea
where it's going so it's always better
to Simply wait wait for it to do
whatever it's going to do wait about 15
minutes and then see what the lay of the
land looks like after that meaning what
inefficiencies are still in play what
smooth areas above or below the
marketplace 15 minutes minimum after non
perel hits so that means 8:45 Eastern
Standard Time new your local time that's
when you have the green light to start
going in and seeking opportunities to
study if you're brand new if you're a
brand new student you're brand
new Trader in the making if you
will whether you if you have studied
with anyone else if you're coming to me
I'm calling you a brand new okay because
chances are you probably learned a lot
of stuff that has absolutely no bearing
on why price is going to move so
it's no question as to why you're losing
money if you're trading on these days
because you're trying to do something
that is ill equipped to handle the
uncertainty that even my Concepts will
not deliver the clarity that's required
to be positioned ahead of it so that's
the reason why I tell my students if
you're brand
new don't trade after Wednesday
morning New York local time on nonar
payroll weeks and you can see Wednesday
was a little bit of a challenging day
Thursday was a little bit of a
challenging day if you're new if you
don't know what you're doing they can be
very problematic and then you're met
with obviously the the king of
volatility for this particular week it's
the non-farm payroll It's usually the
first Friday of every month 8:30
a.m. and leading up that
number it can
be a little unruly in price meaning that
it can it can start to consolidate and
then create these little sharp little
Jabs above or below and go right back
into consolidation again and and you can
see pretty much that's what we've seen
here now there has been for completeness
sake in my career and since I was doing
mentorship with the Forex
payers there has been nonar payroll
weeks where during the Wednesday and
Thursday very very favorable price
action
was available put it that way but that's
usually far and few between so it's not
the standard so it was it was very
difficult for me to try to teach this
concept to new Forex Traders because
they're constantly looking to get into a
trade they're constantly trying to chase
the influencers trying to you know get
enough money or good enough
understanding they can talk a good game
and do mentorships and courses and what
not because that's the fast money that's
the Easy Money getting someone else to
send you money for education and you can
talk in Market replay there's a lot of
suckers that fall into that but you have
to know what you're doing you have to
know exactly how you're going to
navigate these markets because if you're
put into the litmus test of having to do
it live explaining why the market should
behave a certain way and why it should
not behave a certain way at given times
that's prowess that's understanding
excuse me the
the lack of that in this industry is
obvious you can really see it but
there's a lot of lipstick added to high
those types of things because of pump
because of things purchased outside of
trading profits and showcasing those
things so I just want to remind the
young men because that's usually who
this is I'm talking to you're not trying
to become an influencer you got to First
learn how to be a good Trader because
endless amounts of money income
opportunities will be afforded to you if
you learn how to do this well you can
open up a path that you have no idea
what's available to you right now you're
blinded by confusion and uncertainty not
knowing what to do just in your Journal
do me in yourself a favor write in your
Journal that you have permission you
have ict's permission and give yourself
permission to never trade this
day never trade it
now months from now after you've
developed yourself into a well-rounded
Trader you have a model that you haven't
deviated from you haven't tinkered with
it you haven't try to change things when
you're getting consistent returns using
that and you don't feel swayed by your
emotions
then then you can go into nonfarm pay
roll after the release at 8:30 wait 15
minutes minimum and then the rest of the
day you can trade it normally
but it's important for you to prove that
you have the The Willpower to stay away
from this carnival ride because every
new Trader whether they're Forex
Commodities or Futures they all want to
try to trade this day and I did too I
wanted to like I saw a lot of movement I
was like wow if I could get that kind of
movement real quick and sudden I that
would overcome my fear and anxiety about
staying in a trade because it was
something I wasn't willing to to submit
to putting on a trade and having to wait
for it to get to your target is it's
Agony when you're a new student when
you're a new Trader you want them to be
just like my videos where I speed them
up and it feels like wow I got 185
Handles in two and a half minutes that's
the trades I want but it it's not
accurate it's not a true depiction of
what you're going to have to submit to
but watching the the non-farm payroll as
you'll see in a couple minutes it tricks
you when you're brand new it tricks you
thinking that wow there's a way to get
in there before that no there isn't
there really isn't folks and I want you
to know that I want you to understand
that there is no consistent way for you
to be position the head of nonfarm
payroll with any measure of consistency
that will afford you
profitability I mean that sincerely I'm
not hiding some secret technique concept
PD I don't know okay I genuinely in
Jesus name I do not know how to call
nonfarm payroll before it happens I
don't
so I have to sit here and I have to wait
just like anybody else would and see
what do they do the damage on what do
they what do they Crush in terms of buy
side and sell side what inefficiencies
do they trade to and which ones do they
leave so I got a question about you know
what what constitutes
a minor buy side and sell side and what
is the primary buy side and sell side so
every single time I sit in front
non-front payroll and I don't do it all
the time or sometimes because I don't
trade them really
the the times where I'm not interested
in looking at it I'm doing something
else but if I'm able to I always try to
study nonr payroll I usually watch it
with my private students and I'll cover
like about what I'm going to show you
here where the actual primary minor
liquidity pools are and then we watch
and see which one hits and then we look
for the opposing side to get traded to
so in your mind that's what I that's all
I want you to do today in every non-farm
payroll going forward and I'm going to
tell you why this will fail as a
studying mechanism as well but initially
I want you to look at the chart start
with a 15-minute time frame it's very
very simple rules okay what you're going
to do
is about 8:15 quarter after 8 where you
have 15 minutes or so we have plenty of
time so I can still Jawbone and
cover what I'm going to say but 8:15 you
want to see where market price is at
that time so we give ourselves 15
minutes before the actual news release
at 8:30 they released the employment
data I don't care what the number is I
never I never review I have never
reviewed with my students the number of
how many jobless claims there has been
and the the change from the previous
month I could care less about that
number
the market doesn't care about that
number okay the market is a big casino
and they're they're throwing constant
red herrings at you as a Trader and as a
Speculator as an investor they're trying
to cultivate and manipulate Market
sentiment with these
things that's why fundamentally speaking
no pun intended the the pursuit of using
that data on a short-term basis is
flawed just like China trying to use
long-term interest rate trends for
intraday trading is useless because you
could be in a carry trade market on a
Forex pair where one interest rate in a
country is higher than the other and
being long with that currency as the
base that would be a good long-term
trade holding on to it because not only
you're going to be most likely
profitable in the direction but you're
also going to get interest bearing
because you're having your money tied up
in that larger interest rate uh
currency in that respect obviously you
know it makes sense to hold on to a pair
like that because it's going to yield
better over time but that doesn't mean
that I wouldn't sell short that that
Forex pair if I was trading it so these
fundamental long-term perspectives these
macro perspectives macro in the sense
it's higher time frame and Broad in
scope
the the necessity for all that stuff
while while trading is is next to
nothing for me but it's
wonderful instigation for other people
that are less informed to make decisions
where they put their money in our reach
and we can take it so just know that I
am not looking at fundamental data I
never look at the raw data I don't look
at PPI number CPI number I don't give a
what the fomc rate announcement is
I never care to look at it I don't ever
care to look at it and everything that
you need to to know is inside these
little
candlesticks that's that everything that
you need to know is right there because
what this is actually giv you is a real
seismic graph of the market sentiment of
less informed Traders that's what I see
in price I see stupid people doing
stupid things with their money and I'm
waiting for the opportunity where I see
something where they're arm wrestling me
and if they're arm wrestling me and
they're willing to put their money on
the line I'm going to take that money
I'm going to sleep well at night I'm not
going to care that they lost the money I
have no problem I have no Christian
qualms about it because they signed the
same risk disclaimers that I sign when I
open up my accounts so they are aware
they know that there's a potential
they're going to lose money if they're
foolish enough to think that they're
going to be smart
enough to get ahead of the marketplace
and non front payroll know exactly where
it's going to go and you can't enter a
trade you can't put a trade on right
right as the 8:30 news driver enters the
marketplace try to put a trade in you
won't get filled or eventually you'll
get filled at the most inopportune time
with enormous slippage that means where
you're trying to get in at and where you
actually get filled is way out of
spec so don't do it okay just don't do
it so now let's go through the liquidity
pools so we're here we're Sensi right
here at 8:15 so we look back we cleared
this high so that's not a liquidity pool
that high right there it's a wick but
still high so we drop our level right
[Music]
there and this is a close proximity buy
side liquidity pool meaning this is
going to be your minor so you have to
look for something above that one real
simple top left and we'll go to
minor all right you ready was that
hard he complicates everything all right
so going back from this area here at
8:15 or so go to your nearest low that's
not a low I would consider that this
right here this is a minor cells side
liquidity pool so you can do
this all you're doing is looking for the
closest
one at a specific time right before news
[Music]
event so easy even a child can do
it speaking of children uh I believe my
son Caleb has passed is TOP Step combine
so we'll be uh waiting for confirmation
on
that proud son proud of
you but now you're at the party this was
this is the easy
part getting there is easy staying there
and getting paid out that's the
challenge because you're going to
wrestle with the emotions all right so
they have minor sell side liquidity and
minor buy
side now you have to take a little bit
broader look above
that okay so we have this now look at
look what we have here we have all this
consolidation and all these little lows
down here on a news report day like
non-farm payroll they're going to go way
outside way outside what you think is
reasonable that's the problem with
non-farm payroll it's so uncertain and
they can go
way out of spec in terms of average
daily range they can go outside of what
you think it could go to oh it can't I
don't think it's going to go there and
that's exactly where it goes so chances
are when you look at the chart and you
think to yourself I don't I can't
imagine it going
there ask somebody that doesn't know how
to trade look at the chart okay and say
listen if something really big happened
and the market started to move around up
or down really really fast where do you
think it would go like pick a pick a
spot on there uncanny
uncanny how that works but when we come
into it we're looking for all these
patterns these these things and whatnot
we we dilute that purity of looking
through the lens of someone that doesn't
know what's going on so I would not look
at these consolidation
lows as anything of importance this is
the minor cell side liquidity pool but
cut through all this consolidation go
right to these relative equal lows
so this right here is going to be
primary cell
side primary is just the next logical
level of liquidity below your near close
proximity minor cell side liquidity
which is this low and this is the minor
bide liquidity because it's close
proximity to where we're at right now
there's no other high because we've
already cleared this one and we already
cleared this individual Candlestick
there so that means this is a minor POS
Equity pool now is that complicated no
it's really
simple
so bottom left and that's the business
there now here
is the primary buy side you think it's
going to go just to fill in this I'm
going to submit to you that if it's
going to go up here it's going to run
right on through to clear this why
because somebody's up here short and
they think that they're safe because
this is retail
resistance so
this okay I promise I've been on trading
view
before yeah I love how it always like to
make me look like what I'm doing with
this
app or platform I should
say all right so that
is the primary
primary buy side
liquidity okay so now the next question
is
this from a narrative stance and I am
generally wrong when it comes to n FR
payroll so I want to remind you of this
okay we
have an obvious drop that was
precipitous here going down into a
weekly Target we looking for inside that
bid and balance cell sign efficiency
that blue rectangle go watch the first
15 minutes of Monday's live stream if
you do that you'll see where that blue
box came from why it was important why I
believed it was going to go down there
as a weekly Target as it hit it we
haven't done much at all have we that's
pretty interesting isn't it so contrast
that with how I told you to avoid
Wednesday Thursday and Friday of this
week trading I told you where the market
was going to go told you why it was
going to go down there and it went there
and then it behaved like it did here and
even in this sloppy stuff you saw I can
trade I can trade in this mess you're
probably not going to do well doing it
so because we have somebody that's
already made money and they're sitting
in profit right now nonform payro is a
pain pain uh mechanism it's used many
times to
destabilize to mess up current sentiment
and or unseat individuals and then go
the other direction so what could happen
today is we could see it do some run up
here knock these individuals out and
then into next week go
lower and not even take out these lows
that's something that could happen or it
could go down because this is closer to
get to this cell side trip people short
and then rake it all the way across the
coals and then pump it all day long up
to get to here and then go into the
weekend where everybody thinks it's
bullish and then we start going lower
next
week or it could just do a little physic
moving around in here and leave both
pools of liquidity and I'm wrong and
you're wrong and everybody else is wrong
and these get beat
up so a lot of scenarios here so how can
one say this is the one I'm going to
side with I I don't I don't have that
visibility I don't have that but we're
we're all going to watch it now okay so
these levels are
here and we're going to watch it on a f
minute chart because it's a little bit
more
fun one minute is
too it's too much to see it on the one
minute
chart and here we
go already moved 100
handles and has been 20
seconds so the minor bid's been tagged
real easy for it to drop down to get the
minor cell side still
too it's a little lackluster here I was
expecting a little bit more punch having
nonfarm pay before the election this
year
okay since it's slow we will go down to
a one minute
chart so on this first candle at 8:30
the low came in at uh 2064 and the high
came in
at 20, 162 okay so 98 98 Handles in one
minute can you can you weather that if
you're
wrong can you weather that with your 15
contracts and your overleveraged funded
account challenge or your funded account
can you do that because I'm going to
remind you with common sense you
can't okay so the first pool of
liquidity they've taken is the minor buy
side so we're going to see do we
have any interest that go below and get
that minor cell
side it's not important to look at the
individual candlesticks so don't don't
complain like come on you're you're two
zo down I want to see fair value gaps
that doesn't happen
here you're looking for the liquidity
for the first 15 minutes you want to see
what stops they run for above and below
the marketplace so this is a lishing the
method you have your own chart you can
look
at I just want you to submit to the idea
of watching where it wants to reach for
for
stops you feel like you missed anything
so
far oh I wish I would have do you feel
any of that inside right now now like I
wish I would have done this I wish I
would have done that or if you had a
position and you carried it into this
did you get stopped
out are you making money right now if
you carry a position
in are you willing to hold on to that
trade
still I would like to see it dive down
and get that minor cell side from where
it's at right now because they've
already engaged the buy
side
so since it's kind
of slow for
uh a typal typical non-farm
payroll what what I'm looking at is
this I'm viewing it from this
perspective let me get this out of the
way
the buy side
minor has been hit
first there's minor cell side down
here
because it's a non-farm payroll event
you may look at these lows here and
think well that's that's where my eyes
would go not mine because this low is
already lower than that one and this low
is lower than that
one so I'm using this low and that low
that's what makes my liquidity pool the
first minor sell
side but I see this
as the minor buy stops have been
acquired
here and if this is the first side to go
to at
8:30 someone could be interested in
accumulating positions in here
and if they're running for buy
stops with the idea that at a later time
today they could be potentially
lower where would they want to offload
those below this low
here or we're going up here we're
consolidating accumulating to run to
take the primary buy
stops I have nothing to frame that run
on I wouldn't want to take that trade
even though it looks wonderful in terms
of the payout if you were to hold on to
it I would not do that and it's still
8:35 so we have 9 minutes
still now looking at at normally this is
what the chart would look like when
you're watching it with me
what have you
uh what have you seen
here Fair Bay Gap trades down until one
minute
before we rally to take the minor buy
side okay watch the wick
if it clears this High it would need to
run aggressively and not spend any more
time coming back inside this shaded
area if it's underlyingly bullish and it
wants to run otherwise if it goes up and
fails and goes back down and trades
below this this comes this becomes
rather a potential inversion Fair b g
because normally where it's at now
because it's a buy sign B sell sign
efficiency and the market price is here
that means that would be normally
expected to see it come down as a
discount and if it's bullish this should
offer a reason for the algo to offer
that price and then repice higher but if
it goes down through that
and comes back up that would be
inversion and we can use that to do a
case study for the cell side down here
all right so so where we're at right now
it needs to continue it should not ever
come back down in
here did you give yourself permission
not to trade I'm just reminding you
so far this is actually a very
timid and tame NFP
today
Max puzzled as to why they're
uh holding it back here I was expecting
a whole lot more
fireworks see that this is the last one
before we get to our
election I don't think I'm saying that
correctly we I got to check my economic
calendar November 1st is a Friday so
that that could they could be using that
for NFP
I mean I've been ahead of myself saying
that but
uh now think about
how
[Music]
in what 50 minutes 50 minutes the
opening bell in the stock market
if they are lifting price right at
8:30 all the way up to opening range
which is 9:30 to 10 o'clock in the
morning a reminder 10 o'clock I'm
breaking the live session I have
something I have to take care of I can't
escape it
so the the public if they keep sending
this higher and they don't go down to
the minor sell side at all and we open
up at 9:30
right here we're trading at 20,1 180 or
so if we go to rular trading
hours we're down
here so previous settlement is
here and we're up
here so that's a really large
gap what happens
if it manages to climb all the way up
there
we have an enormous
Gap
so is it possible it's going to climb
that much I don't think so it would have
been a lot more energetic by now if it
was trying to get there it doesn't mean
they can't still try to press it there
throughout the day session and today and
just leave everything as it is go into
the weekend with a whole lot of lipstick
on this pig and people will see that on
the weekend they'll read baronss they'll
read all the Investors Business Daily
Wall Street Journal
whatnot and all the Talking Heads Will
say wow the Market's really strong
because the employment data was this
that and other
thing and then next week you know we
start seeing underlying
weakness I'm not trying to pick the top
I'm just saying that I am
not I'm not trying
to pick the top but I'm also not trying
to be a permeable either
because we're we're in that really weird
um Place technically and
seasonally for the market to do
something pretty crazy and we have all
these looming false flags that could pop
off at any
time and I suspect next week we're
probably going to have
one so there's some chicken little stuff
for you the uh
the fair value Gap in
here that's one that you want to have on
your chart note that
[Music]
one but this one here right on the the
jump of nonr payroll because it was the
candle that starts this big carnival
ride if it comes back below this this is
the one I'd like to see definitely as a
inversion faite
capap to run down to
here but nothing in here is given me any
reason to be a buyer or seller
yet now as a young man I would look at
this and say wow you
know I could have went long right before
that happened and I could be up
almost 120 handles or so
and I would literally convince myself
that I could find these setups
beforehand and every single time I
tried
regret the times I was right it would
stop me
out and then it would run where I wanted
to go so it's something that I mentioned
many times that an opportunity in the
wrong
conditions and opportunity is a cleverly
disguised
impossibility and that's what I want you
to subscribe to in terms of expecting
setups before non-farm payroll before
8:30 nonfarm payroll Fridays hold no
bias hold
no expectation over price allow price to
show you what it what it
has after and we have one more minute
and 15 seconds and then we can start
looking for what's
available for
Price this is the best orange juice I've
ever had
wow you know sometimes you get a glass
of orange juice and it's like basically
battery acid and doesn't taste like
anything but
acid um the last batch of this we had
was kind of like that and this one here
is very
pleasant sometimes you get good oranges
and sometimes you
don't orange juice it's just
the for a long time I wouldn't drink it
back in the 90s I had uh I got my first
slap
trading orange juice features in the
option
Market First Trade like that and I lost
half my money
all right 10
seconds all right now it's been 15
minutes after the non-front payroll
release so you want to go through your
charts and see what is
left going back through price here on a
one minute chart
okay nothing really to speak of
there you have to go to a five minute
chart I mentioned this down here so I
will already have this on the chart in
the event that it
does trade
here my interest in that is not to see
it come down for a buy I'm not looking
at it like that if it goes down there I
want to see it trade down through it
come back up treat it as an inversion
fair value Gap to ride to minor cell
side that's where my interest lays right
now I'm not arguing and I'm not fighting
what it's doing
here I'm just not interested because
right now it's in an area where it's no
trade for me it's straight from
8:30 right on up so what is this to me
in my mind it's a Judah
swing I'm looking at this as
bait I'm looking at it
as John Q public he just got done
reading you know a couple books Elliot
wave
pitchforks you know Dow Theory wake
off he's watched some supply and demand
videos and he's looking at this and he's
thinking
wow this is a bullish
market like this is this is clearly
going
up so they're going to look at
indicators they're going to plot their
little moving averages they're going to
put pivot numbers on they going to look
for anything and everything they get in
this to go
up and the other ones that are just
looking at this they're just simply
going to put a buy stop right above this
Candlestick here and if it goes up there
they're going to get tripped in go long
so they're just looking for any excuse
to get into the market
long from this candle at
8:30 that low to this high
has been one straight
Direction no stop run no Candlestick
taking out any
trailed cell stops for anyone that be
long because no one could get
long so all of this is this building in
a
premium ahead of the 9:30 opening
bell
there and what I'm anticipating is I
want to see us
inside that 30 minute interval of
time I want to see some reason why
during this 30
minutes but it could happen before I
want to see it trade down into
this yeah
let to
uh let's leave it was we'll come back to
it minor cell side under
here I have the pups kennel and they're
next to me and if I leave the room
because my wife's out shopping right now
I can't uh
I can't live stream because they'll be
howling and barking and it'll distract
me
so you're GNA hear them moving around
they're trying to still get my
attention but uh I see this as just
basically pumping it up providing a
premium now here's where I could be
wrong and I'm completely content with
being wrong they could just keep pushing
this higher higher higher higher higher
to run to this as the daily objective
and that's that's the that's it that's
the
objective I
will look at something inside of the
9:30 10
o' opening
range and see I trust that if it doesn't
get there before
then and it is in fact trying to get up
there between these two time
points I have confidence that I would
see something in there that would afford
me an entry idea that would deliver from
there up to there if this is in fact
where it's going to happen where I have
to let go of the maret Marketplace and
potentially miss a move is waiting for
the opening
bell because it could just keep on going
up there and it's a it's a move that I
just simply missed and it's okay there's
lot I don't trade every
fluctuation the other day when we were
doing
uh the I was teaching you how to trade
volatility pinball which is just a
execution drill just conditioning
yourself taking every single fair value
Gap every single one of them and running
for the nearby high or relative high or
the nearby low or relative equal low and
just doing that all session long until
you get around 10 to 15 or if you got
time to sit in front of the charts all
day long take a couple breaks throughout
the day get some circulation in your
legs and
whatnot do as much as you can have fun
with it and you watched let's just say
that that was a $10,000 account and
trading with one
contract you know that's 38% that was
posted doing just the drill
so there's lots of setups that are
available and the NASDAQ is going to
move over 650 handles today it's going
to move over 800 handles
today it's going to move a th handles
today before it closes it's going to
move that
much now to the to the novice to the
nefy they hear this is going to go up a
thousand handles and it's already people
typing up stuff going in their personal
messages direct messages I he's saying
it's going to move a thousand handles
today up I didn't say that others going
to say I see he said Nas's going to drop
a thousand handles today I didn't say
that
either I said nasdaq's going to move a
thousand handles today before it
closes don't believe me be long when it
does a 30 handle retracement
lower get squeezed out close the trade
go short thinking that's where it's
going to go and then ride a move that
goes up for 50
handles we're already almost at 100
handles and then it's going to do this
back and forth back and forth all
afternoon on a one minute chart on a
less than one minute chart that's
happening all day long so a th handles
is easy every single day even in small
range
days
so there's never a short supply of
opport opportunities but there is a very
short supply of high probability high
yield lowrisk setups in a day those are
not ample there there there is an ample
supply of that so you have to be a
little more
selective and on a day like this you
have to submit that you're going to
probably miss a
move I'm not going to a day like this
you've seen I think two times now since
we did 2024's mentorship since I started
teaching with these
principles you've watched me sit in a
live stream and explain how if it keeps
going up it's going to go without me and
it's okay I have
no anxiety I have no shame I don't have
any kind of uh regret I don't feel like
I don't know what I'm doing I'm not
thinking that you know oh the viewers of
the stream are going to think my
Concepts don't work I don't think that
at all I mean it doesn't matter because
even when I do trade them and I'm
pushing the button and it works some
people will still say they don't work it
just happens that I got lucky that day
right but moves like this where it's
just one-sided it just keeps going going
going going to me I'm not trading
them and it's okay because this isn't
the only setup this isn't the only price
run for today it just means that this is
the one that everybody else is going to
focus on and they're going
to build a case around whether or not
they're a good Trader or anyone that
doesn't take that trade and didn't take
it with them they're not good or if you
didn't take this trade you're you're a
loser if you didn't getting along on
this you're a fool you something like
that
fact where I'm sitting here trying to be
a a voice of reason and tell
you there's nothing in here that I would
have been long on nothing
because the risk is
too prevalent and I don't want to just
take risk just for the sake of saying I
got in on N Farm payroll which is what
most new Traders want to do they want to
be able to say like it's a badge like
you're all part of the Boy Scouts and
you get that little badge that little
that merit badge says I survived
non-farm payroll I lost my ass and and
in an arm and a leg but I you know I
survived nonfarm payroll
no thanks that's not what I want to do
you I I'm not trying to cultivate that
as an aspiration for any of my students
I want you to say you know what this is
an interesting price delivery I'm
thankful I'm not part of it because I
wouldn't be able to trust where the stop
loss would be because have you
considered that where would your stop
loss be say you wanted to chase this and
go long where are you going to place a
stop loss that you can trust that it's
most likely not going to hit it
I don't have one that I could hang my
hat on and say yeah I feel confident I
feel fairly confident that the market
couldn't retrace down to get my cell
stop based on this that or it's it's
nothing that I can do that with here
because this is a one shot rate from the
opening at
8:30 and it's just gravitating towards
where I said where the traders that are
holding the profitable
positions let's go back out for a moment
remember I was saying to you most of you
that see this big cell sign and balance
buy sign efficiency some of you were
thinking when we were here that it's
going to go up just to go in there and I
said if they're going to go there
they're not going to be content with
just going there they're going to go to
where the positions are protected what
positions anyone that was fortunate
enough but not smart enough that have
already gotten out of their short
they're entering inside this area
anywhere in here
somebody we don't need know their name
we don't know the need security number
where their geographic location is on
the spinning globe it's not a flat Earth
by the way the um the consolidation in
here we have to look at someone went
short so to be
short and hold the position with a stop
loss it's going to be at least a very
minimum Above This
high and because this high is slightly
lower than that one this means this is
what a high probability relative equal
high so it's a prime candidate for it to
be what
taken so don't subscribe just merely
because there's an inefficiency here and
think that well this is it you know we
don't have to worry about anything else
except for to going up to here because
it's already done
that I subscribed to the idea at the
beginning of the stream that if it's
going to go here why not just go up here
where the actual orders are because this
isn't going to have a lot of orders just
trading back up to that candlestick's
low that's not a large pool of
orders the large pool of orders is
resting at this high and this high in
this General proximity right here watch
and that
band right there that's where the actual
buy stops are they're not at the top of
the cell side and balance by side and
efficiency the delivery to price is just
being offered there for the purpose and
mechanism of efficient delivery it's not
that there's a specific number of
important buy stops there the algorithm
is just simply trading there so the
pools of a liquidity are absolutely at
the highs in the lows okay I had someone
send me a comment that said are there
larger pools of liquidity that are not
above old highs or not below old lows no
there are not the largest pools of
liquidity are always absolutely above
old highs and that's buy side or buy
stops or below old lows and that's sell
stops or sell side anything that anybody
tells you outside of that is grade A
okay they're all trying to
twist something and create some kind of
new Theory some new science and they're
they're just tossing things against the
wall and seeing what sticks and if they
can get a file and it starts having some
view about some new thing you know
that'll give them traction and then they
got a they have a crowd and they can
milk that CL that crowd for
money so again the market goes up just
to repic for the purpose of efficiently
delivering what
counter delivery to this down move
efficient market delivery is that it
needs to create a candles stick that
does
this down Clos candle for me that's a
black candle
and a green candle is a bullish candle
on my charts so it would be like this it
would
deliver in the future some kind of a
delivery where price is being offered
going back up we've seen that here but
that's not the end of the
story you got to think why why would it
won't even go up here in the first place
because it had inefficiency it was only
offering sside
delivery that means movement lower so if
it's going to go lower and the algorithm
does two things it reprices to engage
liquidity it doesn't know how many stops
are above an old high it does not know
how many stops are below and old
low but where there are inefficiencies
where it's just one single candles stick
that makes a range in and of itself like
an island this one single candle before
this candle or that lines attached to
it this candlesticks low and this
candlestick's high this single candle
has an
inefficiency it was sells side delivery
but it's inefficient in buy side it
means it hasn't
offered price inside the time listen
folks the time between this candle's
high that candle's low the interval of
time needs to be rebalanced with price
so price will go higher on the buy side
delivery it means over overlapping the
same price range between this candle's
low this candle's High you are expecting
in the future a pass break back up over
top of the single candle and once it
does that and it touches this candle's
low this has been
efficiently delivered that is not a
balanced price range it just means it's
been efficiently
delivered so back to the discussion
about why that's simply not enough
the market going into this area and
offering efficient price and not
taking a ride into these stops to me
would
be a rather interesting observation
today because this is where the actual
orders
are there are no orders essentially that
are outnumbering let's say it that way
the actual liquidity that rests in these
highs
the market driven down into that Target
we had in the blue shaded area it's the
weekly buy side B sell sign
efficiency it delivered that and it
delivered it quickly and then we did not
make anything
lower so the individuals that were
sitting with the largest form of profit
that's still open if they're holding the
shorts their stop loss orders are here
not all of them most of them already
been stopped out with this return back
to that high this Spike taking out that
high and then obviously the non-front
payroll today took out that high but
we're above this inefficiency now right
here so it goes without saying
that nonr payroll is used to
disrupt what's already in play what's in
play the shorts from
here now it could have very easily from
here dropped down
disrupted these and then made this the
daily
run I would have rather seen that to be
honest with you but as it is we just
started right at 8:30 and just started
running rate
for this inefficiency it's no longer
inefficient now it's been efficiently
delivered it is not a balanced price
range yet so we still have to submit to
the idea that there might going to take
us up into here
so it can keep us real close to where
the inefficiency high of the Cy and the
C is this let me let me draw it out in
case there are new people
here this is the
inefficiency and you can see how we
already painted right over top
of this individual
Candlestick that
one right here and then we have all of
this delivery right back over top of it
you see
that this is usually seen with one
single candle but in here it took two
it's
fine whatever it took time wise to make
this
siy you're always anticipating price to
do the same thing TimeWise
so between the
interval of this candlestick's low to
this candlestick's high that same one
single candle you're always anticipating
the delivery to be the same type of
delivery on the other side so that tells
that tells you a whole lot teaches you
what speed and
magnitude whenever you see me talk about
when I'm in a live stream or if I'm in a
live execution and I'm recording the
trade and I'm annotating by typing out
what I think and I'll say okay I expect
to see speed in distance or speed in
magnitude I want to see speed I want to
see large Candles now it's underneath
this idea where it's overlapping
something that's inefficient so if the
inefficiency was manifested in the sense
that it's been delivered to the cell
side quickly and sudden it goes without
saying that you should see bide driven
quickly
to reprice over top of this now that's
not always the same because sometimes
you'll
see that the market will go up a little
bit and come back down go up a little
bit and come back down and it just keeps
grinding like that that's high
resistance inside in
inefficiency those are the times where
you're going to get smacked around and
it's just they're holding it back
because in normal delivery it should be
single pass
inefficient single pass quickly and
delivered but if you ever see inside of
an inefficiency like this and it goes up
in a little sputtering little bit of
move back and forth back and forth
that's manual intervention as well why
because we're inside of an inefficiency
or a gap and price is doing what it's
being held back stagnant even though
it's still pricing over and over and
over and over higher highs just realize
that you're going to be in a trade
that's going to have a whole lot more
retracements so if you're long and say
it's not 9 for
payroll you should not be trying to
chase or Trail your stop loss up just
lock in cover costs give yourself
something that's a nice dinner out in
case you get stopped out and just let it
go it's hard to hold those types of
Trades it really is but you just got to
do it that way otherwise you're going to
be more prone to being stopped out so
we're not subscribing I'm not trying to
tell you to subscribe to the idea just
because we go here we're done because
we've already done what we've went above
it so this is where the actual orders
are right here if you have uh like book
map or if you have something
similar I know uh Matt cohort has uh
something he does it's along the same
lines it's like a liquidity map or
whatever um if you use that take a look
at it and take a look at the the highs
here and here and start watching what
those uh what those price levels have on
those types of tools I'm saying you know
before we had the the opening at
8:30 there that this was minor and this
is primary and also stated that you
who's in who's in profit right now at
the time of 8:30 the shorts are that's
the largest move lower we haven't made
new ground lower than that we've
Consolidated so don't just think that
we're going up here to rebalance this if
we're going up here I'm going to submit
to the idea that they're going up there
to
cannibalize these position holders that
are short that have their stop losses
here and who would have stops up
there deeper Pockets than you and I
large institutions large institutional
investors they're not in the business of
trailing their stop loss they don't they
don't look at okay it's dropped down 10
handles let me let me move my stop to
break even
that's not what they're doing so they're
going to hold on to positions with stops
way outside the range of in their in
their view it's the static price action
they don't want to get chopped up in the
normal delivery of volatility so when
they put their positions on they leave
their core protective
stops above their entry so that way
they're not needing to have a analyst or
a trade manager babysitting every
fluctuation over price because they're
managing billions of dollars so you're
worrying about your one lot your micro
lot you know on a funded account where
you know if you lose you lost the the
activation fee or whatever it is that
they make you pay in this case they they
stand to lose billions of dollars
millions of dollars at the minimum right
so my eye is trying to look for evidence
that's it's going to continue to drive
to here and we're close to the opening
bell we're almost at 10 minutes after so
we have 20 minutes or so away being
right
here they could use the opening range
the first 30 minutes to drive up into
this liquidity here and then take in an
account what what's going to be here
when we look at regular trading hours an
enormous Gap remember we're sitting
right here above this inefficiency price
is sitting right there in electronic
trading
hours and this is previous day
settlement price down here so we have a
very large gap so if we're going to be
in close proximity to those relative
equal
highs which is the primary buy side
which you can't see it here notice that
but we're sitting right here based on
actual electronic trading hours right
now the chart shows regular trading
hours so this is how we determine what
our Gap is our opening range Gap looking
at electronic trading hours we're
sitting right here at the top of it
so is it unreasonable to anticipate them
keeping price in this general area and
then running it as a Judas swing on
regular trading
hours so other words let me let me show
like
this right now we see prices sitting
essentially right
here it's the first time with crayons
folks sorry the uh the price right now
electronic trading hours it's there and
this line even though you don't see the
relative equal highs because it's booked
on electronic trading
hours this level we could see it do this
inside a regular trading hours like this
we could see it
deliver a run up to
here
then let's assume and I'm not saying
this is the case but let's assume that
this is
the
Gap and we take the quadrants off and
we're just going to look at
the trying to find the
uh there it is got to pick some ugly
color that's the mid mid Gap that yellow
line so assuming that we opened here and
we not opening there because we still
have several minutes before it actually
opens at 9:30 but just play Dev Advocate
say it opens at this price right here
and where we had the previous settlement
price down here at 414
yesterday this is midgap so it could
open trade up bust out the relative
equal highs in electr trading hours
that's
this so open here rally up disrupt the
stops accumulate those stops then drop
down to Mid Gap right there and then
we'll see if it wants to go lower or not
notice that it's also when it goes to
the mid Gap it's basically coming to the
high of all this consolidation it's
going to take a real move to get through
all this not to say it can but that's
what that's what I see in price right
now and the potential scenario that may
unfold based on what I see here I don't
think they're going to let these
individuals off the hook
I think they're that's the people in
play and if you go back and listen to
the beginning of the stream you I was
mentioning that non-front payroll
it it's it's a disruptive event it
attacks anyone that has the present
profitable sentiment that's these
individuals that are shorted up here and
look how close we are to them and then
you have the normal volatility in the
first 30 minutes of trading at 9:30 to
10:00 it's not unreasonable to
anticipate him to p it up in other other
handles to knock these individuals out
and then the real interesting study is
what do we do then because we have a
huge gap that 70% of the
time uh number might not be the first 30
minutes if it goes down here at all
today it might take a little bit more
time to get down
there
so just inter
amusings how I internalize what I'm
expecting how I would look at it
today and we'll get this business off
here
that if that was confusing to you just
know
that it's not it's not that difficult
but toggling between electronic trading
hours electronic trading hours is at
6:00 p.m. to 5:00
p.m. and then regular trading hours is
9:30 a.m. all all local time New York
9:30 a.m. to 4:14
p.m. and the opening range Gap is always
defined by regular trading hours which
is
this and you can see we have an enormous
Gap in the making
so opening range I'm anticipating maybe
a little bit of a a drop down get people
thinking oh yeah it's it's selling off
because it filled in this this Gap it's
liquidity void which it's not um there
was trading in here so that think it's
not a liquidity void but the small
little drop down and then run it right
up into here that'll get the street Mone
want to chase it even more buying buying
buying buying buying buying buying
buying and then when it gets into here
smart money could sell short against all
these buy stops that'll become a flood
of liquidity for Willing buyers at a
high
price willing buyers at a higher
price where smart money could use that
to sell to them and then they could ride
down into a gap closure half the Gap 3/4
of the Gap if it completely wipes out
and goes down I mean anything can happen
anything can happen so just know that
that's with nonfarm payroll it
complicates the decision- making so you
have to really know a lot more than you
think you should to navigate it
well now contrast everything I just said
here versus when we're looking at a
normal anying run-ofthe-mill day where
we have a small little Gap okay this is
where Gap is wait for the first
presented fair value Gap it's pretty
straightforward the comments are
basically saying 2024 mentorship has
made everything come together connected
the dots I can see this now I can
anticipate it it's it's it's bridged all
these gaps in my understanding and now
you're finding setups that are much more
consistent and you're comfortable that's
the main thing you're comfortable you're
not fearful you're not anxious and
you're very calm when you're in the
trades now have you noticed that that's
what mentorship is like that's learning
something from someone that knows what
they're doing and the things that work
in the marketplace not contrived things
not conjecture things things that are
actually based and rooted on the
truth now contrast to all those things
with what I just outlined here for nonpr
heral it's like wow this is a lot
exactly so if you're a brand new student
can you see how this could quickly drown
you it's difficult and it's difficult
for me I ain't going to lie I'm going to
tell you straight up these are very very
challenging conditions because I can see
multiple scenarios that could very
easily be used whereas any other given
day I can see how okay yeah they
obviously pumped us into a premium our
large opening Gap it's going to go 70%
likely back to Mid Gap in the first 30
minutes that's your first initial bias
so you can submit to that idea if
there's a scalp you can take that but
once it gets the mid Gap then we have to
determine does it want to continue in
the direction of the gap or is it a
complete Gap closure and then once it
closes the Gap does it go below the Gap
if it's a a premium Gap then use the
bottom of the Gap as resistance or a
premium and then sell off and do a
multiple of that opening range gap of
two to three standard
deviations so your understanding is
gradually being increased Caleb but you
have to have the willingness to say I'm
not interested in this day Dad that's
the answer I'm looking for from you that
is the answer that I want to hear from
you I want here say you know
what I can do without it and that's
maturity that's a hard thing to sell to
a new Trader new student because they
see these big
candles and it invites them like a candy
bar like I want that I want that I'm not
satisfied with a consistent 25 to 30
handles every single day I'm not
satisfied with that I want to take the
chance and the risk is not that
imperative to me as a
deterrent to not want to trade trade
this day that that's the usual dynamic
in the mind of a new Trader because they
chase the excitement around it they
think they actually believe that they
can be in this move beforehand and be
right enough times and survive it and
it's it's not the
case it's not the case man
so we're going to see here in about 10
minutes how the market uses this
information in these next few minutes
I'm going to talk about
Asia
when when we look at the the daily
ranges okay and I'm going to take our
attention away
from all the markups here I'm going to
delete them and we'll come back to it in
a second we'll come back to about 3
minutes before the opening
belt but we're going to remove the
drawings and go to a daily chart
I want you to think about
how when the market doesn't have an
economic calendar event that's a medium
or high impact news driver during the
8:30 to to
10:00 uh Crudo inventory is usually
coming around 10:30 they're not really
all that impactful to uh indices or
equities like that's really not it's not
a factor but usually you'll have a 10:00
news driver there'll be a 9:45 news
driver there'll be
a 9:30 there'll be a 8:30 or an 8:45
news driver maybe a 9:15 something will
come out that somebody speaking a speech
or whatnot usually anywhere between
8:30 and 10:00 that's like your your
time when some kind of a
external stimulus will come into the
marketplace and and be used as smokes
screen to mask what the market makers
are doing whether algorithmically or
manual
intervene let's assume that there's
nothing on the economic counter going
into the next morning
okay and also let's assume that in the
last hour of trading the market trades
down and cleans up a pool of liquidity
below relative equal lows or below a
significant low that's been in the uh
the charts for a several days so during
the last hour they trade
down say when the Market's bullish it
does this in the last hour so it engages
the cell side below an old low or
relative equal lows that's been in the
market for a few days but they stop it
right at the market close once that sell
side's been
taken that is usually a wonderful time
to anticipate at 600 pm. when the market
starts trading again because at 5 5:
p.m. assuming we're not on a
Friday at 6 p.m. they'll start the new
electronic trading hours
session wait until around
650 to
710 and you can start looking for
reasons to be long then and look for
setups to trade into the 10:00 hour not
that they all last that long but that's
the usual protoc call I use when I'm
trading at Asia with a high degree of
probability that you're going to have a
nice Asian range that last hour of
trading it's got to upset some kind of
liquidity and then stay there into the
close it cannot go down below a relative
equal low or singular low and then start
rallying in the last
hour that doesn't give you the same high
probability because what is actually
happening is in those
instances the last hour is being
implemented for smart money to
accumulate the sell stops and they're
just holding it there and you'll see
live streamers that are expecting a lot
more protracted move lower when then all
they're doing is is there they're just
keeping price there and they're letting
the last flow of orders coming in which
is a large
influx they're just scooping them all up
buying accumulating and then they know
that in Asia after the first 50 minutes
of trading the algorithms macro will
start spooling price and then it'll tell
them that they're on side or offside and
then the market when it starts to Rally
then they take they take every single
discount array to accumulate more long
positions going into the 10 o00 hour
so if you look at some of the uh the
better days where Asia has had really
nice um price runs study by contrast the
last hour of trading in the index and
you'll see clues that you didn't see
there before that is the largest degree
of
probability for trading Asian session
whether you know it's going to be a good
good day to trade it does not mean every
single Asian session is a good trading
opportunity it's not and I've said this
at nauseum but the the protocol I use is
it has to be a day where there isn't
going to be any kind of high impact news
drivers or medium impact news drivers no
speeches no nothing in the economic
calendar between 8:30 and 10 o' the next
New York session because there's an
absence of that they're going to use
many times the Asian session as the low
of the day when you're bullish or the
high of the day when you're
bearish and if you look at
the um the daily chart here you can
toggle back and forth and you can see
how the days close and
open are real close to one another not
all the time depend upon if you're
looking it how your uh charts shown the
settlement but generally you're seeing
the bodies are very close to what the
previous bodies closed or opened at
previously
so that indicates there's something
going
on but not always is it the low of the
day you see how close we are in
proximity here between the previous
close and where we opened we had all of
this and we had this in here so you have
to filter out all that how do you do
that by focusing on the sessions Asia
7:00 to 9 that's your sweet spot that's
your that's your little working area
okay and it could it can extend its
price runs to 10 o'clock but usually
when we get into 10 o'clock just Square
your positions or if you're trading with
the pretense that it's going to be
um a continuation on the daily chart and
you want to capture a large range and
there's no economic news medium impact
or uh high impact or speeches at 8:30 to
10:00 next New York session take some
profit off at 10:00 but leave a runner
some form of position still on it and
you'll see many times that Asia will
start rallying up and it'll have this
uncharacteristic movement it's like
where did this come from where did this
come from a couple weeks back I bought
radi on Market on clothes and it was
doing very similar things I did this I
Shar this with my private students and
in ageia just kept on going higher
higher higher higher higher and
it looked very similar to what we've
seen so far on this it was just doing
something like this and it's like
everybody was sending me comments in the
videos they were sending me emails
what's going on with Asia what happened
in Asia and would I just explain to you
is what happens that's what happens the
smart money uses the market on close to
enter and then they wait for Asia to
start and at 650 to 710 that first macro
it better start sending price in
Direction higher if they're long and as
it does that every single time it comes
back down to a short-term discount
they're accumulating it anymore and
what'll happen is Asia will run all way
up into midnight Midnight you'll have
small you know small little retracement
but then London just keeps on powering
up or it'll
consolidate all through a messy
London and Asia was the real run London
is a consolidation and then in New York
you get another stage of what was
happening in Asia that's the SEC that's
the first measured move and then you'll
see the same thing repeated during the
New York session and you'll be up 700
500 handles on the on the day based on 6
PM's previous electronic trading hours
opening price to whatever the high the
day is that's formed in New
York so as a reminder that's not an
everyday occurrence that's not something
that tells you that you have a good
trading session in Asia like that all
the time but there are opportunities
that you can trade Asia between 650 to
10:00 because 650 is when the first
macro starts to uh spool
and the 750 to 810 in my opinion is
better because sometimes they can get a
a delayed start so if there is no
obvious run on price at the 650 to 710
macro in
Asia the odds of the 750 to 810 macro
presenting something really nice for
Asia even if it is going to be a high
impact or new impact uh session and New
York session later
on you'll still have a really nice
opportunity to trade in Asia it doesn't
mean you're going to get 100 handles but
you can get anywhere between 25 and 40
Handles in Asia when it's like that when
the when the 650 the 710 macro is silent
it's sitting still the 750 to 810 macro
in Asia is generally a nice 20 20 to 40
handle run don't take my word for it go
back and look at your charts and see it
and don't just look at the last two
weeks and think you have something
figured out okay again I got comments
about some guy who did uh systems run on
the probabilities of the opening range
Gap not filling or I'm sorry filling 70%
of the time in the first 30 minutes um I
have data Going Back 40 years so I don't
know what your data is but I have four
Decades of data on it so your data is
probably skewed meaning you don't have
the full
picture and I wouldn't just toss that
number out there I'm not literally
pulling out of my M to sound intelligent
it's based on my own studies my own
observations I've been watching the
markets for 32 years I have data I
purchased Data before I started trading
the markets were trading so I had to buy
data because I wanted to back test how
far how far back these observations I
was making exist in price action so when
I tell you the opening range gaps these
were things that I was dealing with uh
you know currency futures
let's do
this go back in put all the lipstick
back
on I'm control
Zing all right so we are sitting with a
very large opening range
Gap there we are and
let's look at this on a one minute
chart so there is
the Reg trating
hours
settlement to opening
price
and that's mid
Gap and now we can go back
into electronic trading
hours actually
me get that price 111
3/4 okay so here is midgap inside of
opening range
these are the days where I'd like to see
it not go
to Mid Gap yet but in fact give this
initial drop down here to get Traders
thinking it's going to go lower and then
rally it higher and go for the
obvious buy
side cuz if if it comes all the way down
to Mid Gap and de climb from there all
the way up here then I'm I'm convinced
at that time that we won't just go here
to go back down it's going to go here
and consolidate accumulate more and go
higher even
still if it goes down to the bid Gap
then comes all the way back up here that
is not some kind of a run for turtle
soup scenario to go lower that would be
indicative of this is this thing's going
to go higher a lot higher
this box is not an inefficiency remember
I was showing you the the liquidity
being taken on that minor buy side so we
take that off it's going to conf fusure
otherwise I was looking at thinking
myself what the hell did I draw that
for now you know why I don't like to
draw things on my chart I trade naked
and I look at all the levels here
numerically in a notepad form so I'm
constantly getting a different
perspective not just getting lost in the
candlesticks as some people might say um
looking at the data based on PD arrays
on a notepad and I'm thinking about what
I expect to see in price I'm not putting
lipstick on a chart and if I'm throwing
things on my chart like this while I'm
teaching it's very distracting to me
because it it's something I have
to whether I want to do it or not
subconsciously I'm always trying to
think did I what did I put that in there
like the other day I had something on
there and it was just just a rectangle
that I had
started and and because I lost where I
let go of it on here it appeared on a
lower time frame chart but it wasn't
something that was really Anor or
drawing any special attention to
anything that's what I want to see that
type of thing drop down and say nope
let's rip it
higher so I want to see some kind of a
fair value Gap form as it runs back up
into the high of that Cy which is this
red shaded area remember that's that
inefficiency we were talking about all
morning this is repricing back over top
of it we've already had multiple candles
laid on top of it this move here could
be maybe an initial Judah swing short
sellers are trying to trade the Gap
closure even my studies with the half
Gap they might be trying to do that too
I don't want to see that right now I
want to see it
rally and make an attempt to unseat
these individuals because that that
stays true to the form of what nonfarm
payroll really is that's the that's the
nature of nonfarm payroll it's the
disrupt those who are right now
profitable and that's the shorts from
Tuesday if you had a stop loss up here
and you're holding your short you've
seen a lot of ground lost on your on
your position would you feel confident
that the market is going to reach all
way up here to get you
nonfarm payroll is Boogeyman trading
basically who can they get and are you
going to get
got one of the
best observations I've noticed is that
many of you some of you actually were
very critical a lot in the comments but
you were doing it in in a respectful
manner so that I didn't I didn't hide
you from the channel which means that I
I'll never see your comment but you
think I can you'll be able to see your
comment on the on the YouTube channel
your post will the only one you see but
I won't ever I won't be able to see it
if you're rude if you say something
stupid you only get one chance to do
that and then I I basically it's a
little
um option for a channel holder or owner
if someone leaves a comment you I can
delete the
comment and you will see it deleted if I
did that I don't delete comments I look
at removing you from the channel meaning
you'll be able to leave your comments
you'll be able to talk to yourself I
won't ever see your comment no one else
sees you coming either but uh some of
them in the past have been uh critical
but still respectful saying listen you
know I don't see any Merit in in these
things I can can see that you're trading
and doing executions with them I'm
watching this Gap right here by the
way the
uh they make the observation saying
while I see your while I see your
executions I don't see any Merit
in the the concepts themselves so which
leads me to believe that these are
cherry-picked scenarios so I can
appreciate a comment like that but then
when we come in here in your live
streaming and I'm explaining what I
think is going to happen in price and
you've seen some executions now um and
the logic behind them using all the
logic that I've taught and using that
logic against itself and seeing how it
fails
so one of the wonderful things I've had
in the last few months more specifically
the last two weeks these uh these live
streams and the lectures I've given have
brought a lot of clarity to a lot of you
and the the points that are repeating
are I'm a whole lot more calmer watching
price now whereas I was not interested
in just looking at uh price I wanted to
be demoing at least we're trying to pass
a funded account Challenge and now the
idea of watching price with the intent
to understand it
more somehow I bridged the Gap with a
lot of you and I'm very thankful for
that as being a as a teacher as a mentor
uh that's a very hard barrier to breach
with teachers
doing some kind of a breakthrough for
students to say okay I trust this person
teaching me now I trust this person so
I'm going to submit to the things they
ask me to do and I'm seeing a lot of
feedback like that now and it's just
really encouraging as a teacher to see
that
because I wear my heart on my sleeve as
a teacher like whether you paid me in
the past or whether you're watching for
free and you really don't really
appreciate much of what you're getting
you just want to come here and just
sample whatever you think is
entertainment or maybe you're running a
mentorship and you're sampling things
taking things and saying well I'll add
this to my next teaching I'll do this
I'll do that that to me is not you're
not a student of mine you're a parasite
but the students that are here because
they're trying to learn how to do this
and be independent from me that's who
I'm teaching that's that's the target
audience if it's not my
sons it's the the alternative is is it's
these individuals that are genely trying
to make an effort to to learn how to do
it and they're being serious about it
they're taking it serious and that means
they're doing these lab experiments of
going in and engaging price on every
fair value Gap that forms and looking
for a run into the nearby liquidity and
the feedback I'm getting from that
because now they're doing that they're
using their demo account properly now
they're not in here trying to over
leverage to show somebody on social
media look what I made when you don't
have any idea why that why that panned
out and why is it going to f fail the
next time you try
it the the descriptions that everyone's
leaving about the AHA moments the
epiphanies these these leaps and
understanding and excitement about what
they're
learning that's the part that I love at
that's the energy I feed off of if I can
be called a vampire I'm living off the
energy vicariously by all of you sharing
those moments because that supercharges
me because I know what it was like for
me I know exactly what that feels like
and I've lost that because nothing's new
to me anymore and when I see my students
share that and you can I can I can feel
the vibrations of their excitement and
their
their their passion being stirred up
about what they're learning and I can
tell they're spending time in the charts
because their their remarks are wordy
they're very descriptive
they're they're trying to do the best to
find words to describe they feel and I
already know what you feel I already
know trust me I know what that feels
like and it's very hard to describe it
even though you know that you tried very
hard to describe how exciting it is for
you right now because you're seeing
things happen in a chart and you're
looking over your shoulder thinking how
is this possible I could see this and
just by watching these videos and this
this mentorship why is this guy doing
this for
free why why am I really allowed to move
this that's that's the that's the
wonderful feeling of being informed
money now you're in a small minority
group right now you it's even though
smart money Concepts SMC that's my stuff
that's uh in a lot of people's mouths
right
now a lot of people using those terms
don't know what they're doing and a lot
of them are selling content selling
lectures and whatnot and they're going
around pretending to be informed money
when they're not they're only informed
as much as the replay button will show
or what the hindsight chart movement has
shown and you're learning how to do it
independent from me and that's power
that's independence that is maturity and
it's also something
that when you see things get
expensive and we're all seeing
that you won't you won't
fear okay you can't control inflation
you can't control the higher prices of
stuff but you do have a skill that
you're growing that can outpace
inflation even
hyperinflation hyperinflation costly
things and stuff like nobody wants to
have it I have lots of money and I still
get pissed off that they're doing what
they're doing with the cost of things
because I I know what it feels like when
I'm spending money for a month's worth
of groceries and I'm supporting other
family
members that's a lot of money in the
hands of someone that works a regular
job that's a lot of money I don't know
how they're doing it I don't know how
everybody else is doing it but you are
learning a skill
that you can compound a little bit of
money into a secondary income Revenue
stream that could potentially grow to
something that makes you millions of
dollars and when you have millions of
dollars at disposal where you can just
use it for whatever you want you sleep a
little bit easier at night I'm not
saying you know money should be your God
or your safety net but it's a tool it's
an absolute tool but if you don't have
the ability to make money and if you
don't have the ability and the
understanding and the mindset that you
can repetitively go out and make more
new
money and you're not limited how much
you can make who says you can't make
$100,000 in the month of December who
says you
can't who who could conin you that you
couldn't no no one could convince me I
couldn't no one convince my top tier
students that they
can't so when you have that and you try
to explain to other people that can't do
it it sounds arrogant it sounds
narcissistic when it's just that that's
them telling you the truth they have
they have an ability that they trust in
they have a a skill set that they know
that they can tap
into and it's going to serve them in the
future
hey it's Kaden
relax all right so so far opening range
has been pretty much
lackluster but the main take away is
that I'm as a as a mentor teaching it
I'm happy to see people saying I am calm
I'm not in a rush to push the button
anymore I'm observing what I'm doing and
here's the main thing that is I've
noticed a lot of individuals are now
passing their funded account combines in
all of the other prop firms like not
just one prop firm like all of them and
they're saying what I've learned just in
the last nine eight weeks or whatever
has allowed me to be calm about my
executions know what I'm looking for and
I used to be scared when I'd put a trade
on I'd be AF afraid I was going to blow
the combine or blow the fund the account
and I'm getting payouts now that's the
other thing combines being passed and
payouts I've not seen such a large
influx
before larger than I have now in the
last two months because people are
they're buckling down and saying you
know what I'm treating it like a
business I'm not treating it like online
casino poker and stuff like that you
you're not gambling now something has
happened some kind of shift in your
Paradigm has caused you to look at
things differently now and I don't know
what it is specifically because I've
always been teaching like this and all
of these lessons really um unless I
specifically said this is something new
even my mentorship students are learning
with you right here it hasn't been a
whole lot of
that but because now I think because
things are so expensive I think people
are at their wit's end they're like look
I have to make this work and I'm going
to take it serious the man's putting his
time out here for free I'm going to take
advantage of that and I'm going to do
what he says I'm going to put the work
in that's what I think actually
happening because all the things I'm
teaching here I taught opening
gaps I taught opening range Gap in
mentorship I have students that knew
about it before I start talking about
like that's not new stuff I've taught
this before
so what's occurring I think is the sense
of
urgency while you can't speed up your
ability to learn how to do this
well you can shorten the learning curve
by being diligent about how you study
and what your expectations are while you
do it
this cutting through all this chaff here
and focusing on this Gap want to see if
they use it and then if it starts to SPO
lower this gap down here and then to 70%
of the Gap closure I'm sorry 50% of the
Gap closure which is 70% uh likelihood
of happening in the first 30 minutes but
I'm not holding it to it to today
because it's not far payroll and it
just it's typical to break the rules
which is another reason why I don't like
to trade
it do you see any
pris easy for you to say ICT do you see
any Precision elements in price action
so far
today
nope so what did I teach you this week
when you see that lack of precision
around my PD arrays what's
occurring who's in the marketplace
pushing and maneuvering price it's not
the buyers and sellers it's good old
Phil
he's doing his job
today moving price around running stops
here pushing it here pushing it there
and there's no Rhyme or Reason why it's
doing it and that's how you lose money
saying well I feel like I been watching
this long enough today it's about time I
push a button let me see what happens
when I do this well there you go
congratulations here's your ass hand it
right to you on a silver
platter that's not what I'm
teaching I'm teaching what the look for
when it's high probability it's obvious
it's one-sided you can't justify going
in the other direction with it it's so
heavy-handed long or short that's when
you're
trading and
maturity is waiting for those instances
where it's so painfully
obvious and if you make that your
regimen that is your protocol that you
look for every single time you trade you
are going to do the most in terms of
reducing the likelihood of you blowing
your account reduce the likelihood of
you going into the draw down reduce the
effects of fear and greed because you
know what you're looking for and I think
as a
teacher no better reward for our time
invested in other
people than seeing a student say I'm so
proud of myself that I stuck to this
because I wanted to quit so many times
because it's not easy it is not
easy but for the folks that have grinded
through this for several years I have
2016 first round mentorship
students that literally has reached out
to me in the last two and a half weeks
and said
Michael like it it was it was impossible
for me to see how any of this could help
me and I see your students I see what
you're doing and it still wasn't able to
bridge the gap for me this mentorship
that what you've shown here like it's
something brand new nothing nothing
thing I taught here except for the few
things I mentioned like the new week
opening Gap and new day opening Gap and
the the difference between the two and
how to use them notice I'm not using
them every day I'm reminding you that
you don't need those either they're just
helpful they're helpful and using the
right context they're extremely
precise but you don't need that you
don't need to bring everything from my
YouTube channel to your charts and say I
need all this or I can't be profitable
and now that's the other thing I find
it's very uh encouraging because now
you're seeing that my stuff is not
complicated it's very simple you don't
you don't need everything that I teach
you need one thing that sets the stage
for you to be bullish or
bearish then you have to look at what
time of day you're going to
trade okay in that time of day where is
the
macro where's the
liquidity what's your multiplier what's
the PD array that you're going to be
using to get into the trade these are
all the things that are going to be hard
in the beginning because you're going to
see other students say I'm using the
optimal trade entry here I'm using
inversion fair value Gap I'm using
propulsion block order
blocks institutional orderflow entry
drills and you you're afraid that you'll
spend too much time
doing one pdra when you're really
designed and meant to trade something
else and you're going to think it's the
universe trying to communicate to you
that this guy's thing popped up on my
stream I don't even follow him he was
showing the inversion fair value guy
that's the one I should be doing not
the order block or
breaker you have to start
somewhere and then stick to
it
well it's certainly making the case like
it once to get down
there I still wouldn't trade it
I know who's in here
today now in an Ideal World if it's
bearish the upper half of this Gap
should not be closed in
I'll think about what's below the
marketplace right now you
have this discount
Wick consequent
encroachment you have this Fair Gap and
you have the
70% uh
closure 70% 50% of the opening range Gap
that has 70% likelihood of closing
within the first 30 minutes of trading
so 10 o'clock is
here so you have a couple
minutes but I already subscribed to the
idea it doesn't have to do that today
what I was saying about this Gap
here this Gap
there I was telling you I was watching
that we came back up in the body stopped
at the upper quadrant of
it and then uh we broke lower and we
created this fair value
Gap if this was going to be bearish
after leaving this Gap here because it
showed a signature at upper upper
quadrant meaning this look at the look
at the FIB here watch this high up to
the high of the volume balance because
you have to factor that in and then the
quadrant levels I know I'm covering
price I'm sorry I'm trying to be as
quick as I can
the uh the bodies or respecting the
upper quadrant of that
Gap so if the price leaves lower like
this and creates another fair value Gap
this is going to be a breakaway
Gap so there's our delivery into our
fair value Gap here and consequent
encroachment of this Wick would be
next and then
uh half the
Gap so Breakaway gaps I have a lot of
people asking about can I comment on
that what what you know what constitutes
a breakaway Gap you have to be able to
identify and admittedly you can hear you
know I'm trying to be mindful of the
risks of today because I know that many
of you that aren't always honest with me
some of you are overzealous and you do
trade your account while watching the
live stream and because you made money
for the first time time you're trying to
share that with me on Twitter and you
show me this is what I've made today
thank you so much you know and I
appreciate the thank you but I don't
want you thanking me for you doing the
things I told you not to do please don't
share your trades with me okay you can
share them on your social media you can
credit me if as as an influence but
don't put my S like my app don't put my
handle in it because I'll see it and it
mess it messes me up because I don't
want your
risk I don't want it and you're going to
show me where it worked out great but
eventually you're going to do something
that is ill advised and it's going to
hurt you and you're going to complain to
me and that that that hurts because you
don't listen to me I don't want to see
you lose money I don't want to see you
do something wrong and then you get scar
tissue from it
but in the comments around all that
stuff a lot of folks there's the uh
consequent correction of the wick the um
here comes the Gap closure to 50% boom
and it happened before 10:00 again so
there's your stats still uh killing ICT
style Mr I don't think it happens 7% of
the
time here's the other gap I told you I'd
like to
see so anyway let me finish this thought
here uh because we had this initial Gap
there I wanted to see how price traded
away from it it did and then I was
watching when price was digging up into
it I was waiting to see how the
candlesticks are dropped where are they
burying the Bodies Okay so if they're
burying the bodies inside that Gap and
it's respecting the upper quadrant
that's the same thing even though it
Wicks outside of that Gap this is normal
we allow for that what is that called a
mohawk it's just coloring Outside the
Lines it doesn't mean something's
inherently broken or wrong just means it
just explored outside of that but the
bodies are telling you what it's
respecting the upper quadrant of that
Gap
and that means if we trade away from it
Go
lower then it creates that Gap with this
candlestick's high as I was telling you
this Gap I'm watching it and if it
trades up here I want to see it leave
the upper half of that Gap open well
let's put the divider on
it and we'll put a red line in there way
it stand down a little
bit do you see the price stop hopping at
halfway point and not going in the upper
half of
that pretty pretty precise isn't it
so because we left this Gap in a manner
of showing these signatures like this
and while I am not willing to take the
trade because it's not from perel and I
could be wrong today and I know people
are going to copy me and they're not
going to listen to me and if I'm wrong
on a day where i'm like not likely to be
perfectly accurate um
you could incur a loss so I'm being very
responsible with the choice of words I'm
having today because I don't want to
entice you to do something that you
normally would do in other days I want
you to be respecting the risk because
this day tends to do things outside of
the parameters and rules that I give you
that's the number one reason why I don't
trade it it's it's it's not something
that adheres to the rules most times
sometimes it can but most times it
doesn't so because I am aware of that
you're unaware of it you think that I'm
subliminally trying to tap your shoulder
and say take this as a trade and that's
your conscience speaking to you saying
let's be impulsive and look for anything
that is a clue to get in here and do
something when that's not what's going
on here and certainly wouldn't be going
on on a nonf far peral
day so if the price is going to drop
down into the Gap closure half
Gap this
inefficiency that first fair value Gap
that's leaving here then it should be
met with no willingness to get to the
upper half of it because that would
indicate what heaviness and it wants to
go lower and it did it to script so it
drives aggressively down inside the the
time window of 10
o' Gap closure half was is right
here and it hit it before 10
o00
so you watched me outline scenarios
today that were both
sides because it's a day where I can be
wrong and while I was really interested
in seeing it go higher to upset those uh
those short positions on
Tuesday it worked this area here and it
finally broke down and I took your
attention to the fair value Gap that
started this run and outlined it I don't
want to make more of it than than what
it was but I want you to see that even
in this I can be wrong about my analysis
initially I wanted to see it go higher
but I can also recognize where it's
likely to change its gears there was
nothing that put me in a long position
this morning nothing that would have put
me in anything
long but real time I explained how this
was
turning and then using this as a
breakaway Gap what makes it a breakaway
Gap is that we've already have enough to
set the stage and this is the Inception
of the price run this fair value got the
signature was inside of that Gap look
real close
Okay as price was Meandering around in
here remember I was telling you I want
to get an x-ray view I want to cut
through all this chaff and get to the
heart of what's really going on this
inefficiency so the market drops
down comes right back up in the body
stops short of the upper quadrant I'm
seeing all this stuff with just rough
eyeballing the high and the low of that
that weight Gap
in other words I'm looking at this
candlestick's high this candles sticks
uh open because that volume imbalances
there this is not the proper fair value
G that's not
it that's why you would get this type of
distortion you got to factor in that
volume and balance if there's ever a
volume and balance inside of what would
be viewed as a potential fair value Gap
there is no there is no separation
between the bodies with the first candle
and the second candle there is a
separation between the bodies on candle
number three and candle number two
candle number two's close is lower than
the open of the next candle here see
that that small little separation
between these two price points here in
there so you have to draw your rectangle
up there which is another reason why I'm
not supplying demand okay I have very
specific price levels you're not going
to see that idea disguised as uh supply
and
demand
science it's uh it's not in their it's
not in their repertoire so the benefit
of having a real range like that defined
and real inefficiency is that when you
do quadrants inside of it you're grading
that price
range and if it's bearish we want to see
signatures that indicate that
bearishness the bodies are going to tell
you the
story watching price when it went up in
here look where the close is it's below
the upper quadrant
so is it laying the body down on top of
the high of that that shaded white area
no this Candlestick we open we Wick
outside of it and then what move away
from it so we opened below the upper
quadrant we allowed and afforded the
market to do what create a little Mohawk
color outside the lines but what does it
do after it does that smashes down
wonderful when this Candlestick closed I
said okay I'm now I'm watching this for
everybody Gap here go back and listen to
the
stream you'll hear me say I if it's
bearish you want to see it stay outside
of the upper
half and then boom it delivers right to
the half of it not a tick more not one
tick more and then lower and then
aggressively you moves down to Mid gap
which is a strike rate of 70% no matter
what anybody else tells you by 10:00 and
it hits it there and it trades into the
Gap I was telling you about earlier that
this is this this is my interest here if
it goes down I want to see it go down
here if it goes below it comes back up
treat as inversion fair value Gap then
we look
for minor cell side and
[Music]
ultimately primary cell side over here
so I've given you a couple extra minutes
but I do very much have to get off of
here I have a personal matter I take
care of my wife's been uh sick so I got
to play nurse on top of that
so I didn't intend to take a trade today
it's not for payroll I hope that I have
taught you that you can have an analysis
you can have an expectation and still
have a profitable idea being wrong I did
not take the short I'm not secretly
thinking a short I don't have anything
to show you as an execution what I
shared today was all there is for it uh
I hopefully have communicated the
importance
of abstaining from this day learning
what they do with liquidity How They Run
for the inefficiency the delay of the
land the points and references that I've
mentioned except for all the way up
here that buy side up here the primary
buy side everything else has been pretty
pretty good for a case study today I
would be pleased if I was someone
sitting in and watching what I I watch
today because it was it was based on
logic not impulsive chasing price and
just the sheer Precision elements of it
it's just it's just wonderful and even
during this messy stuff that you would
think the job is real the chop is
real it's it's not it's the Precision is
real okay that's that's the reality of
price it's it's that and when price is
not illustrating that when we were doing
all this back for stuff I mentioned okay
are you seeing anything that showing
elements of precision not yet until we
had
that what I just describe with the
bodies then the displacement lower then
that fair value got present itself boom
everything dialed in like a eagle's
eye I trained in on that I put your
attention right there and the market
delivered that now the trolls won't see
that as something useful my question is
do you see that as useful do you see
that as something that is a
a signature in price action that tends
to repeat you're seeing me actually
identify it real time and it frames the
price run that you see many times after
the fact and you're like what caus is
that how is he able to do this how do he
keep getting away with this it's because
of the logic I'm teaching you it's real
there is an algorithm whether you like
to believe it or not and you can take
advantage of these things you can
exploit them just like smart money does
they're doing that every single day
so that's it for this one try to get
some rest this weekend I'm certainly
going to try to do that I've been up
most of tonight a plain nurse so I'm
going to try to take care of what I got
to take care of and if I can manage to
get a couple hours of sleep this
afternoon I'm going to do that enjoy
your weekend and Lord willing I'll be
back at it again next week until then be
safe